>> Ifill: IN THE WAKE OF A
GIFTED ACTOR'S DEATH, NEW
WORRIES ABOUT THE DRUG THAT MAY
HAVE ENDED HIS LIFE AND THE
DANGEROUS RISE OF HEROIN USE IN
THE U.S.
GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN IFILL.
JUDY WOODRUFF IS AWAY.
ALSO AHEAD TONIGHT, BOOSTING
TRAFFIC SAFETY BY USING
TECHNOLOGY TO HAVE CARS TALK TO
ONE ANOTHER.
FEDERAL REGULATORS SAID THEY'RE
OPEN  REQTOUIRING JUST THAT.
PLUS, JOURNALISM ATTEMPTS
ANOTHER TRANSFORMATION,
TRADING TRADITIONAL PLATFORMS
FOR DIGITAL ONES.
>> THIS IS A DIFFERENT
MEDIUM, IT'S NOT TRAINS,
IT'S NOT TELEVISION, OF
COURSE.
IT HAS ITS OWN CRAFT, ITS
OWN OPPORTUNITY AND YOU SEE
A LOT OF TALENTED PEOPLE
WITHOUT GET THAT AND WANT TO
PURSUE IT.
THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF THE
STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
>> Ifill: THOSE ARE JUST
SOME OF THE STORIES WE'RE
COVERING ON TONIGHT'S PBS
NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: THE SELL-OFF ON WALL
STREET PICKED UP TODAY WHERE IT
LEFT OFF FRIDAY, ON WORRIES
ABOUT SLUGGISH GROWTH.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST 326 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
15,372.
THE NASDAQ FELL 106 POINTS TO
CLOSE UNDER 3997.
AMID THE DOWNTURN, JANET YELLEN
WAS SWORN IN AS CHAIR OF THE
FEDERAL RESERVE.
SHE'S THE FIRST WOMAN TO LEAD
THE CENTRAL BANK IN ITS 100-YEAR
HISTORY.
>> Ifill: FRIGID WEATHER CUT
INTO THE CAR BUSINESS IN
JANUARY, AS BUYERS STAYED AWAY
FROM SHOWROOMS.
FORD, GENERAL MOTORS, TOYOTA AND
VOLKSWAGEN ALL REPORTED TODAY
THEIR SALES WERE DOWN FROM A
YEAR AGO.
CHRYSLER, NISSAN AND SUBARU
BUCKED THAT TREND, REPORTING
INCREASED SALES.
>> Ifill: IN A FEW YEARS, ALL
NEW CARS AND LIGHT TRUCKS MAY
COME WITH TECHNOLOGY THAT CAN
PREVENT MOST WRECKS.
TRANSPORTATION SECRETARY ANTHONY
FOXX ANNOUNCED TODAY HE EXPECTS
TO MAKE THAT PROPAL BOSEFORE THE
END OF THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION.
IT INVOLVES SPECIAL TRANSPONDERS
THAT LINK VEHICLES WITH EACH
OTHER.
WE'LL TAKE A CLOSER LOOK, LATER
IN THE PROGRAM.
>> Ifill: THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE
WHO SIGNED UP FOR INSURANCE ON
healthcare.gov ARE GETTING
NOWHERE WHEN THEY TRY TO FIX
OVERCHARGES AND OTHER ENROLLMENT
ERRORS.
"THE WASHINGTON POST" REPORTS
22,000 APPEALS ARE SITTING
UNTOUCHED IN A COMPUTER.
OTHERS ARE BEING REBUFFED OVER
THE PHONE.
SO FAR, THE WEB SITE HAS NO WAY
TO HANDLE APPEALS.
TODAY, WHITE HOUSE SPOKESMAN JAY
CARNEY COUNSELED PATIENCE.
>> WE ARE TALKING HERE ABOUT A
VERY SMALL PERCENTAGE OF THE
NUMBER OF PEOPLE WHO HAVE
APPLIED FOR COVERAGE.
WE BELIEVE THAT MANY OF THE
ISSUES THAT CAUSED PEOPLE TO
FILE APPEALS ARE LEFT OVER FROM
WHEN THE WEBSITE WAS NOT WORKING
WELL AND MANY OF THOSE PROBLEMS
HAVE SINCE BEEN FIXED.
>> Ifill: LATER, OFFICIALS IN
CHARGE OF MEDICARE AND MEDICAID
ANNOUNCED THEY'RE BEGINNING A
MANUAL APPEALS PROCESS, UNTIL
THE WEB SITE CAN DO THE JOB.
>> Ifill: THE ABORTION RATE IN
THE U.S. HAS DROPPED TO ITS
LOWEST SINCE 1973.
A PRIVATE RESEARCH ORGANIZATION,
THE GUTTMACHER INSTITUTE,
REPORTED TODAY A 13% DECLINE IN
ABORTIONS BETWEEN 2008 AND 2011.
THAT COINCIDES WITH A LARGE
DECLINE IN OVERALL PREGNANCY
RATES.
THE STUDY FOUND NO EVIDENCE THAT
NEW STATE CURBS ON ABORTION ARE
AFFECTING THE NUMBERS.
>> Ifill: IN UKRAINE, PRESIDENT
VIKTOR YANUKOVICH RETURNED TO
WORK AFTER FOUR DAYS OF SICK
LEAVE.
AT A PUBLIC APPEARANCE TODAY, HE
WARNED AGAINST RADICALISM AMONG
THOSE PROTESTING HIS MOVE TOWARD
CLOSER TIES WITH RUSSIA.
IN TURN, PROTEST LEADERS SAID,
IN A PARLIAMENTARY SESSION
TOMORROW, THEY WILL SEEK CHANGES
TO WEAKEN THE PRESIDENT'S
POWERS.
AL-QAEDA HAS DISAVOWED ITS
POWERFUL AFFILIATE IN SYRIA.
IN A STATEMENT TODAY, THE TERROR
NETWORK'S LEADERS SAID THEY'LL
HAVE NO FURTHER TIES WITH THE
ISLAMIC FRONT IN IRAQ AND SYRIA.
THE STATEMENT ALSO CONDEMNED
REBEL INFIGHTING AS
OLYMPIC ORGANIZERS IN SOCHI,
RUSSIA FACED QUESTIONS TODAY
ABOUT UNFINISHED HOTEL ROOMS,
FIVE DAYS BEFORE THE OPENING
CEREMONIES.
AS OF SATURDAY, THREE OF THE
NINE HOTELS RESERVED FOR
THOUSANDS OF JOURNALISTS WERE
NOT FULLY OPERATIONAL.
STILL, THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE
INSISTED TODAY MOST
ACCOMMODATIONS ARE READY.
>> 24,000 ROOMS HAVE BEEN
DELIVERED AND 97% OF THEM
WITHOUT ANY PROBLEM.
FOR THE REMAINING 3%, THERE ARE
STILL SOME ISSUES TO BE SETTLED.
>> Ifill: ALSO TODAY, THERE WAS
WORD THAT RUSSIAN AUTHORITIES
HAVE HIRED A PEST CONTROL FIRM
TO EXTERMINATE THOUSANDS OF
STRAY DOGS AROUND SOCHI.
IT'S UNCLEAR HOW THE DOGS ARE
BEING KILLED, OR WHAT'S BEING
DONE WITH THE CARCASSES.
>> Ifill: THE SEATTLE SEAHAWKS
TODAY RELISHED THEIR FIRST SUPER
BOWL VICTORY IN WHAT TURNED INTO
THE MOST-WATCHED T.V. EVENT
EVER, WITH MORE THAN 111 MILLION
VIEWERS.
THE TEAM CAPTURED THE TITLE
LAST NIGHT, BLOWING OUT THE
DENVER BRONCOS, 43-TO-8, AT THE
MEADOWLANDS IN NEW JERSEY.
A CELEBRATORY PARADE IS SLATED
FOR WEDNESDAY.
MEANWHILE, FANS STRUGGLED TO GET
HOME TODAY AS A NEW STORM DUMPED
UP TO EIGHT INCHES OF SNOW IN
THE NORTHEAST.
HUNDREDS OF FLIGHTS WERE
CANCELED OR DELAYED.
STILL TO COME ON THE "NEWSHOUR",
HEROIN'S DEADLY RE-EMERGENCE;
THE PUSH FOR "TALKING CARS" TO
PROMOTE SAFETY ON THE ROADS; A
LOOK AT MEDICAID IN A STATE THAT
OPTED NOT TO EXPAND COVERAGE;
NEW VENTURES DESIGNED TO
TRANSFORM WEB JOURNALISM;
CONCUSSION DANGERS FOR HIGH
SCHOOL FOOTBALL PLAYERS; PLUS,
REMEMBERING THE ACTOR PHILIP
SEYMOUR HOFFMAN.
>> Ifill: THE SUDDEN, SHOCKING
DEATH OF OSCAR WINING ACTOR
PHILIP SEYMOUR HOFFMAN HAS
BROUGHT FRESH ATTENTION TO THE
SOURCE OF THE ADDICTION THAT
APPARENTLY KILLED HIM, HEROIN.
THE USE OF THE DRUG HAS BEEN ON
THE RISE IN STATES LIKE
MARYLAND, WHERE 37 DEATHS HAVE
BEEN REPORTED SINCE SEPTEMBER,
AND IN VERMONT, WHERE THE
GOVERNOR DEVOTED HIS STATE OF
THE STATE ADDRESS TO THE TOPIC.
BUT ITS USE IS SPREADING ACROSS
THE NATION.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS THAT.
>> Brown: HEROIN MAY NOT BE THE
MOST COMMONLY USED ILLEGAL DRUG
BUT A NATIONAL SURVEY SHOWS ITS
USE HAS DOUBLED SINCE 2007.
WE LOOK AT THE CHANGING FACES
AND PLACES OF ADDICTION AS WELL
AS REASONS FOR IT WITH GIL
KERLIKOWSKE, DIRECTOR OF THE
WHITE HOUSE OFFICE OF NATIONAL
DRUG CONTROL POLICY, THE
NATION'S SO-CALLED DRUG CZAR.
AND SAM QUINONES, AN AUTHOR AND
REPORTER AT THE LOS ANGELES
TIMES.
HE IS CURRENTLY WRITING A BOOK
ON THE RECENT HEROIN SURGE IN
THE U.S.
LET ME START WITH YOU, ARE
WE SEEING, TO WHAT EXTENT
ARE WE SEEING A NEW SURGE
AND HOW SERIOUS.
>> IT IS A SERIOUS PROBLEM.
WE ARE SEEING AN INCREASE, I
THINK THE CONCERN HAS ALWAYS
THAT DATA USUALLY LACKS ONE
OR TWO OR SOMETIMES THREE
YEARS DEPENDING ON WHAT THE
SURVEY OR WHAT THE MEASURE
IS.
BUT I CAN TELL YOU PIE
TRAVELS ACROSS THE COUNTRY
AND A SPOKE TO THE NATIONAL
NARCOTICS OFFICERS TODAY AT
LUNCH, THERE IS NO QUESTION
WE ARE SEEING A RESURGENCE
OF HEROIN.
>> AND SEEING IT WHERE AND
IN WHAT KIND OF POPULATIONS.
>> WELL, IT'S VERY
DIFFERENT.
AND TWO ISSUES COME UP.
ONE IS IF PRESCRIPTION DRUGS
ARE MORE TIGHTLY REGULATED
OR LESS ACCESSIBLE OR MORE
EXSENSE-- EXPENSIVE PEOPLE
CAN TURN TO HEROIN BECAUSE
THEY ARE ALREADY ADDICTED.
THEY SUFFER THE DISEASE AV
DICTION TO THESE OPOIDS.
THERE IS A SECOND PART, THAT
IS WE SEE A GROUP OF YOUNG
PEOPLE WHO ARE VERY NAIVE
AND BELIEVE THAT HEROIN USED
IN CERTAIN WAYS, THEY WON'T
BECOME ADDICTED.
IT'S EDGY AND WHAT HAPPENS
IT IS INCREDIBLY DANGEROUS.
>> YOU HAVE BEEN LOOKING AT
THIS ALL AROUND THE COUNTRY,
WHERE DO YOU SEE IT, WHAT
KIND OF POPULATION AND HOW
PERHAPS HAS IT CHANGED OVER
TIME?
>> I HAVE BEEN ALL OVER THE
COUNTRY AND I WITH SAY
LARGELY THIS IS A WHITE
PROBLEM.
I DON'T FIND OPIATE
ADDICTION TOO MUCH IN BLACK
OR LATINO POPULATIONS.
IT IS VERY DIFFERENT FROM
THE WAY HEROIN SPREAD 40
YEARS AGO IN THE 1970s WHERE
A LOT OF COMMUNITIES WERE
BADLY HIT HEROIN TODAY IS
ALMOST ENTIRELY A WHITE
PHENOMENON.
AND IT'S IN RURAL AMERICA,
IT'S IN LARGELY IN SUBURBAN
AMERICA, PLACE THAT HAVE
DONE FAIRLY WELL, MIDDLE
CLASS, UPPER MIDDLE CLASS
AREAS.
AND IT'S IN TOWNS IT THAT
REALLY NEVER HAD A PROBLEM
WITH HEROIN BEFORE THIS.
CHARLOTTE, SALT LAKE,
COLUMBUS, CINCINNATI,
ALBUQUERQUE, PLACES LIKE
THAT WHERE YOU JUST DIDN'T
REALLY SEE IT SOME OF.
NOW IT HAS BECOME A VERY,
VERY BIG PROBLEM.
AND AS GIL KERLIKOWSKE
RELATED T IS THE GATEWAY
DRUG IN ALL THIS ARE THESE
PRESCRIPTION PILLS.
>> Brown: EXPLAIN THAT A
LITTLE BIT MORE, SAM.
YOU START.
THE TIE BETWEEN THEY WERE
DESCRIPTION DRUGS AND
HEROIN.
>> WELL, MANY OF THESE
PRESCRIPTION PAINKILLERS ARE
VIRTUALLY IDENTICAL
MOLECULARLY TO HEROIN,
OXYCODONE IS VERY, VERY
SIMILAR.
ALMOST IDENTICAL TO HEROIN.
THE PROBLEM IS THAT THERE IS
A BLACK MARKET IN THESE
PILLS NOW.
BECAUSE THEY HAVE BEEN SO
WIDELY PRESCRIBED.
THERES WITH A REVOLUTION IN
MEDICINE  THEIN UNITED
STATES BACK IN THE 80s AND
90s THAT SAID THESE PILLS
ARE NONADDICTIVE, ONES
PRESCRIBED TO CHRONIC PAIN
PATIENTS SO WE HAD THIS
RISING SEA LEVEL OF PILLS
ALL ACROSS, ALL ACROSS THE
COUNTRY.
A VERY DEEP BLACK MARKET
DEVELOPED IN WHICH THESE
PILLS NOW COST A DOLLAR A
MILLIGRAM.
MOST OF THESE PILLS COME IN
30, 40, 80 MILLIGRAM DOSES.
THAT MEANS YOU ARE HAVING TO
PAY 30, 40, 80 BUCKS A PILL
AND A LOT OF PEOPLE GETTING
ADICTED.
THEIR TOLERANCE RISES.
THEY CANNOT-- THEY END UP
USING THREE, FOUR, FIFE OF
THESE PILLS.
I MET PEOPLE WHO HAD 3, 400
A DAY ADDICTIONS.
HEROIN COMES IN AND IT IS A
FIFTH TO A TENTH CHEAPER
THAN THAT.
AND IF YOU ARE ALREADY A LOT
OF THESE FOLKS GETTING
ADDICTED TO THE PILLS, HAVE
ALREADY BEGUN INJECTING.
nd WHEN THEY START INJECTING,
IT'S KIND OF LIKE YOU
CROSSED THE RUBE CON IN A
SENSE.
AND SO HEROIN, INJECTING
HEROIN ISN'T MUCH DIFFERENT
THAN INJECTING PILLS, IT
JUST HAPPENS TO BE FAR
CHEAPER.
>> AND WHERE GIRL
KERLIKOWSKE WHERE DOES THE
HEROIN COME FROM.
>> IT REALLY HADN'T CHANGED.
ALMOST ALL OF THE HEROIN
THAT EPT ARES THE UNITED
STATES ENTERS AT THE
SOUTHWEST BORDER,.
AND IT IS A SIGNIFICANT
INCREASE IN SEIZURES THAT
CUSTOMS IN BORDER PROTECTION
HAS BEEN MAKING.
SO WE DO KNOW THE CARTELS
CAN MARKET AND THEY CAN
MARKET TO YOUNGER PEOPLE.
SO WE ARE SEEING THAT
INCREASE.
AND WE ARE SEEING THIS
CONCERN THAT YOUNG PEOPLE
DON'T RECOGNIZE THAT THIS IS
INCREDIBLY DANGEROUS.
AND POWERFUL.
AND THEY THINK USING IT IN
OTHER WAYS, THEY WON'T
BECOME ADDICTED.
UNFORTUNATELY, THEY DO.
>> PHILIP SEYMOUR HOFFMAN
HAS SAID TO HAVE A HEROIN
WITH THE LOGO ACE OF SPADES,
A BRAND NAME, SO TO SPEAK.
WHAT DO YOU MAKE OF THAT?
ARE THERE DIFFERENT STRAINS,
POWER, WHAT IS THAT.
>> IT'S VERY COMMON FOR
THESE FOLKS TO LABEL OR PUT
SOME TYPE OF TAG.
BUT YOU NEVER REALLY KNOW
WHAT YOU'RE GETTING.
JUST BECAUSE IT HAS THAT
HEART OR THAT ACE OF SPADES
ON IT, DOESN'T MEAN THAT
THAT IS WHAT YOU ARE GETTING
THE NEXT WEEK OR THE WEEK
AFTER.
AND IF YOU LOOK RIGHT NOW IN
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA, I
THINK WE'RE UP TO SOMETHING
LIKE 22 DEATHS WITH HEROIN
THAT IS LACED WITH ANOTHER
PHARMACEUTICAL PAINKILLER
FENTANYL.
>> SAM, THE OTHER THING WE
KNOW ABOUT THE HOFFMAN STORY
IS THAT HE HAD GONE INTO
REHAB MANY YEARS AGO.
HE WAS ESSENTIALLY SAID TO
BE CLEAN FOR SEVERAL DECADES,
IN FACT.
THAT TELLS US SOMETHING
CLEARLY ABOUT THE NATURE OF
THIS KIND OF ADDICTION.
>> IT TELLS US THAT THIS IS
AN ENORMOUSLY DIFFICULT
ADDICTION TO KICK.
PEOPLE HAVE TO RELAPSE SIX,
EIGHT, NINE, TEN TIMES
BEFORE THEY'RE ACTUALLY ABLE
TO KICK THE HEROIN HABIT.
ONCE YOU GET DOWN, ONCE YOU
START DOWN THAT SLOPE IT IS
VERY DIFFICULT.
IT ALSO HAS THIS HORRIBLY
MANGLING EFFECT ON THE
FAMILIES SURROUNDING THE
PEOPLE WHO USE IT.
TALKING WITH LOTS OF
FAMILIES, PEOPLE AROUND THE
COUNTRY HAVE LOST LOVED ONES
TO THIS.
AND THE DEATH, SOMETIMES IS
EVEN ALMOST LIKE A RELIEF
BECAUSE FOR SO MANY YEARS
IT'S JUST BEEN THIS HORRIBLE,
HORRIBLE PROBLEM DEALING
WITH THIS ONE KID WHO CHEATS,
WHO LIES, WHO STEALS.
AND THAT IS AIR BIG PART OF
THE ADDICTION.
CAN I SAY ALSO, THAT IN MY
VIEW HEROIN IS LIKE A
COMMODITY.
WHATEVER THEY STAMP ON THESE
THINGS, OR HOWEVER THEY SELL
IT, THE ONLY WAY IT DIFFERS
FROM HEROIN-- HEROIN DIFFERS
FROM EACH OTHER IS LITERALLY
BY THE WAY IT'S CUT.
AND SO IT'S LIKE ASPIRIN,
YOU KNOW, EVERY --
EVERYWHERE YOU CAN FIND IT,
IT IS JUST MEASURED
DIFFERENTLY.
AND I THINK THAT THIS IS A
KEY TO ALL THIS.
BECAUSE HEROIN TRAFFICKERS
HAVE LEARNED TO MARKET
THEIR-- EXPERT MARKETERS,
THEY HAVE TO MARKET BECAUSE
THAT'S THE ONLY WAY THEY CAN
DIFFERENTIATE BETWEEN THEIR
DRUG AND OTHERS.
>> Brown: ALL RIGHT.
>> AND SO TO ME THAT'S
REALLY A BIG PART OF THIS.
TEASE GUYS HAVE LEARNED TO
MARKET EXPERTLY ALL ACROSS
THE COUNTRY.
>> Brown: IS THERE ONE, JUST
IN OUR LAST 30 SECONDS HERE
GILL KERLIKOWSKE S THERE ONE
POLICY PRESCRIPTION THAT YOU
ARE MOST FOCUSED ON TO STEM
THIS.
>> FOR HEROIN IT IS GOING TO
HAVE TO BE THE EDUCATION.
AT ONE TIME THE OFFICE OF
NATIONAL DRUG CONTROL POLICY
HAD $190 MILLION TO DO
PREVENG PROGRAMS.
THAT HAS BEEN ZEROED OUT FOR
THE LAST COUPLE OF YEARS BY
CONGRESS, EVEN THOUGH THE
PRESIDENT HAS ASKED FOR
ABOUT $20 MILLION.
KIDS GET PLENTY OF PRO DRUG
MESSAGES.
WE NEED TO GIVE THEM
ANTI-DRUG MESSAGES,
PARTICULARLY AROUND HEROIN
THAT WORK.
>> Brown: GIL KERLIKOWSKE
AND SAM QUINONES, THANK YOU
BOTH VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: FOR YEARS CARMAKERS
HAVE BEEN ADDING ADVANCED,
AUTOMATED SAFETY FEATURES TO
THEIR INCREASINGLY HIGH TECH
VEHICLES.
NOW, THE FEDERAL VERNGOMENT IS
CONSIDERING TURNING SOME OF
THOSE OPTIONS INTO INDUSTRY
STANDARDS.
>> Ifill: IN A SUPER BOWL
BROADCAST PACKED WITH CAR
COMMERCIALS, THIS HYUNDAI AD
FOCUSED NOT ON SPEED OR STYLE,
BUT ON HOW TO AVOID AN ACCIDENT.
>> WHOA!
>> Ifill: IN IT, AN EVER-
ATTENTIVE DAD DOES HIS BEST TO
PROTECT HIS SON FROM A
COLLISION.
INCLUDING THE PERILS OF MIXING
TEEN-AGED HORMONES WITH
LEARNER'S PERMITS.
>> REMEMBER WHEN ONLY DAD COULD
SAVE THE DAY?
AUTO EMERGENCY BRAKING ON THE
ALL NEW GENESIS.
>> Ifill: IN FACT, AUTOMATIC
BRAKING IS BECOMING AN OPTION ON
MODELS AROUND THE WORLD.
>> A CAR THAT ACTUALLY SEE LIKE
A HUMAN.
>> Ifill: THE VEHICLES USE
RADAR, VIDEO AND SENSORS TO
MONITOR THEIR SURROUNDINGS, GIVE
EARLY WARNINGS TO DRIVERS AND
EVEN ENGAGE THE BRAKES.
>> THE TECHNOLOGY MAY BE HARD TO
IMAGINE.
BUT WHY YOU WOULD WANT IT IS
NOT.
>> Ifill: NOW TRANSPORTATION
SECRETARY ANTHONY FOXX WANTS
SIMILAR ENHANCEMENTS OALL N NEW
VEHICLES.
>> WE HAVE THE ABILITY, THROUGH
TECHNOLOGY NOW, TO DEVELOP A
REGIME IN WHICH THE SAFETY
ADVANCES ACTUALLY KICK IN BEFORE
AN ACCIDENT OCCURS AND WE
ACTUALLY AVOID THE UNFORTUNATE
EVENT ITSELF.
>> Ifill: FOXX SAYS CARS WOULD
USE RADIO TRANSPONDERS, ALLOWING
VEHICLE TO VEHICLE COMMUNICATION
TO RELAY CRITICAL INFORMATION
AND THUS, REVOLUTIONIZE AUTO
SAFETY.
>> WE HAVE 30,000 VEHICLE
FATALITIES A YEAR IN THE US AND
THE PROSPECT OF BEING ABLE TO
CUT, ACCORDING TO RESEARCH,
PERHAPS 70% TO 80% OF THE
COLLISIONS AND ACCIDENTS THAT
ARE HAPPENING AROUND THE
ARE HAPPENING AROUND THE COUNTRY
>> Ifill: DAN NEIL IS AN AUTO
COLUMNIST FOR THE WALL STREET
JOURNAL WHO HAS BEEN FOLLOWING
THESE DEVELOPMENTS.
DAN NEIL, WELCOME.
>> THANK YOU.
>> WHAT IS THE GOVERNMENT
LIKELY TO PROPOSE OR
CONSIDERING HERE THAT WOULD
BE DIFFERENT FROM WHAT WE
EXPERIENCE NOW OR HAVE
AVAILABLE TO US NOW?
>> WELL, WHAT'S IN PLAY IS
THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE
INTELLIGENT HIGHWAY SYSTEM
AND VEHICLE SYSTEM SO THAT
CARS USING SORT OF AIRPLANE
LIKE TRANSPONDERS
COMMUNICATE WITH ONE ANOTHER,
ANTICIPATE EACH OTHER'S
MOVEMENTS AND IDEALLY STAY
OUT OF EACH OTHER AWAY.
THE GOVERNMENT SET ASIDE A
SPECTRUM, AN ELECTRONIC
SPECTRUM FOR THAT PURPOSE A
COUPLE OF YEARS AGO AND THE
MANUFACTURERS WILL BE
RESEARCHERING HOW CARS CAN
BEST TALK TO EACH OTHER.
BUT IT'S IMPOTE
THAT FOR EXAMPLE IN THE
COMMERCIAL TRUCKING INDUSTRY,
TRANSPONDERS ARE A COMMON
THING.
AND WITH THESE DEVICES
CARMAKERS AND WHOEVER ELSE,
THE INTERESTED PARTIES,
WHOEVER IS CREATING THE
INFRASTRUCTURE AROUND THESE
VEHICLES WILLHAVE VERY WE
SEIS DATA ON A CAR'S
LOCATION, DIRECTION, SPEED
AND THAT INFORMATION WILL BE
SHARED AMONG THE VEHICLES ON
THE ROAD.
WHEN I THINK ABOUT THIS I
FEEL LIKE DRIVERS WILL FEEL
A SENSE OF A LOSS OF
CONTROL.
AND THAT MIGHT BE A
DISINCENTIVE FOR ACTUALLY
GETTING HINE THE WHEEL OF
ONE OF THESE CARS ARE YOU
TAKING THE ONUSUS OFF THE
DRIVER, DOES IT FEEL THAT
WAY WHEN YOU DRIVE ONE OF
THESE CARS?
>> I HAVE BEEN VERY SUR
PRICED.
THE PUBLIC DOES NOT SEEM TO
MIND THE LESSENED DRIVER
WORKLOAD IN THESE CARS WITH
THESE INCREASINGLY
SOPHISTICATED AUTONOMOUS AND
SEMI AUTONOMOUS SYSTEMS, FOR
INSTANCE ACTIVE LANE
KEEPING.
THE CAR WILL STAY BETWEEN
THE LINES.
AND YOU KNOW, A DRIVER CAN
DO THAT, BUT IT'S A ROUTINE
FUNCTION AND THE CAR CAN DO
IT BETTER WITH AS YOU
MENTION IN YOUR LEADUP.
STEREOSCOPIC VISION AND
STARRUOUS SENSORS SO THERE
DOES NOT SEEM TO BE A
CONCERN AMONG THE DRIVING
PUBLIC OF A LOSS OF
THESE-- OF AUTONOMY.
AND HERE IS THE OTHER THING.
IT'S REALLY IMPORTANT FOR AN
AGING POPULATION TO GET
AHOLD OF THIS ISSUE.
THESE TECHNOLOGIES WILL
EXTEND THE DRIVING CAREER OF
OLDER AMERICANS IN SUCH A
WAY THAT IT WILL BE VERY
BENEFICIAL.
YOU KNOW LOSING YOUR DRIVING
PRIVILEGES IS REALLY TOUGH
ON OLD PEOPLE.
AND THIS TECHNOLOGY PROMISES
TO KEEP PEOPLE ON THE ROAD
AND MAINTAIN THEIR
INDEPENDENCE FOR A LONG
TIME.
THAT'S JUST ONE OF MANY
REASONS WHY THE GOVERNMENT
AND THE AUTOMAKERS ARE
INTERESTED IN IT.
>> LET ME ASK YOU THIS, DAN.
DOES IT WORK IF THE
GOVERNMENT DOES NOT MANDATE
THIS IN EVERY VEHICLE.
BECAUSE IF SOME VEHICLES ARE
EQUIPPED WITH THIS, AND
OTHERS AREN'T, DOES THE IDEA
COME TOGETHER?
>> YEAH, THIS IS AN
INTERESTING ISSUE.
BECAUSE THEY'RE ACTUALLY TWO
APPROACHES TO IN.
ONEOU M YIGHT SAY THE
TECHNOLOGY IS INDEPENDENTLY
AUTONOMOUS.
EACH VEHICLE HAS AN ARRAY OF
SENSORS THAT CAN RESPOND TO
EVERYTHING IT SEES AROUND
IT.
THESE SYSTEMS WILL
EVENTUALLY BE PROGRAMMED
WITH VAST ARCHIVES OF YOU
WOULD SAY ALGORITHMIC
RECOGNITION SO THEY HAVE
NEVER SEEN ANYTHING THEY
HAVEN'T SEEN BEFORE.
THEY RESPOND QUICK, BETTER
THAN HUMAN.
THE OTHER WAY THATOU C YAN
DO THIS IS WHAT THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT IS TALKING ABOUT
NOW WHICH IS A VEHICLE TO
VEHICLE, V TO V OR V TO I,
VEHICLE TO INFRASTRUCTURE
REGIME.
AND IN THIS WAY VEHICLES
WILL COORDINATE THEIR
MOVEMENTS AND WITH THE
INFRASTRUCTURE.
WHAT'S INTERESTING ABOUT
THAT IS THAT ESPECIALLY IN
THE MEGACITIES OF ASIA,
MANAGING TRAFFIC, THAT IS
BEING ABLE TO PLATOON
VEHICLES ON HIGHWAY ITS
WHEREHERE T IS VERY LITTLE
CARRYING CAPACITY LEFT, THIS
IS A PROBLEM THAT V TO V AND
ESPECIALLY V TO I CAN
ADDRESS.
>> IT SOUNDS-- EXPENSIVE
THOUGH.
ARE AUTO MANUFACTURERS
PREPARED TO DO THIS?
>> AUTO MANUFACTURERS LOVE
THESE TECHNOLOGIES.
THEY ARE A POINT OF
DIFFERENTIATION IN SALES.
AND ULTIMATELY IF YOU DO
THIS RIGHT, IF YOU
ELECTRONICALLY CRASH PROOF
AUTOMOBILES YOU CAN BEGIN
TAKING WEIGHT OUT OF THE
VEHICLES AND WEIGHT, MASS IS
ONE OF THE THINS THAT DRIVES
FUEL ECONOMY DOWN.
SO YOU ARE GOING TO HAVE
LIGHTER VEHICLES THAT WON'T
HAVE TO BE THESE BIG STEEL
BOXES TO SURVIVE CRASHES.
AND THEY WILL BECOME MORE
FUEL EFFICIENT.
>> TIME QUESTION BRIEFLY T
SOUNDS LIKE BIG BROTHER
MIGHT HAVE BETTER AGO IS TO
YOUR INFORMATION, THEY WILL
KNOW WHERE YOU ARE GOING,
WHERE YOU ARE COMING FROM,
HOW FAST YOU ARE GOING,
ISN'T THAT A DISINCENTIVE.
>> TO THE BIG BROTHER, MORE
LIKE TARGET AND WAL-MART AND
H & M.
YOU KNOW, WHEN COMMERCIAL
INTERESTS HAVE A GOOD IDEA
OF WHERE YOU ARE IN YOUR CAR,
THEY CAN ADVERTISE TO YOU
MUCH LIKE THEY DO ON THE
INTERNET.
THIS IS THE CONNECTED CAR
AND THE CONNECTED INTERNET
ARE GOING TO HAVE THE SAME
DEPTH OF PRIVACY ISSUES.
>> OH JOY.
DAN NEIL, "THE WALL STREET
JOURNAL," THANKS SO MUCH.
>> ALL RIGHT, THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: NOW, A LOOK AT NEW
EFFORTS IN SOUTH CAROLINA TO
PROVIDE HEALTH CARE FOR THOSE IN
NEED, BUT WHO DON'T QUALIFY FOR
MEDICAID.
THE NEWSHOUR'S MARY JO BROOKS
HAS OUR REPORT.
>> Reporter: SIXTY-YEAR-OLD
WALTER DURST HAD HOPED THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT MEANT HE
COULD FINALLY GET HEALTH
INSURANCE.
LAID OFF FROM A RETAIL JOB SIX
YEARS AGO, HE NOW MAKES LESS
THAN A THOUSAND DOLLARS A MONTH
WORKING ODD JOBS.
>> ITS LIKE STEPPING ON
EGGSHELLS.
YOU'RE JUST AFRAID ALL THE TIME
OF CATCHING SOMETHING.
THERE ARE A FEW THINGS THAT I
KNOW I NEED DONE, LIKE A
COLONOSCOPY THAT I CAN'T DO.
>> Reporter: BUT DURST ISN'T
GETTING COVERAGE ANYTIME SOON
SINCE HE FALLS INTO A GAP: HE
CANT AFFORD PLANS ON THE HEALTH
EXCHANGE, BUT ALSO ISN'T
ELIGIBLE FOR MEDICAID IN SOUTH
CAROLINA.
UNDER THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT,
MEDICAID WAS TO BE EXPANDED TO
INCLUDE ANYONE UNDER THE AGE OF
65 WHO MADE UP TO 133% OF THE
POVERTY LEVEL, THAT'S ABOUT
$15,000 A YEAR FOR AN
INDIVIDUAL.
BUT THE SUPREME COURT RULED THAT
STATES COULD OPT OUT.
AND GOVERNOR NIKKI HALEY WAS
AMONG THE FIRST TO ANNOUNCE THAT
HER STATE WOULD DO JUST THAT.
ITS A DECISION THAT HAS STIRRED
UP POLITICAL ACTIVITY ON BOTH
ENDS OF THE POLICAL TISPECTRUM.
ACTIVISTS ON THE LEFT RECENTLY
RALLIED AT THE STATE CAPITOL,
URGING LAWMAKERS TO REVERSE THE
DECISION.
THEY SAY SOME 250,000 PEOPLE
DON'T HAVE HEALTH COVERAGE
BECAUSE MEDICAID WASN'T
EXPANDED.
THEY BROUGHT FORWARD A COFFIN TO
SYMBOLIZE THE LIVES THAT WILL BE
LOST IF PEOPLE DON'T HAVE ACCESS
TO PREVENTIVE CARE.
>> I'M A STUDENT AT S.C.S.U.
I'M DOING MY THING.
BUT YET I DON'T HAVE COVERAGE
>> Reporter: 46-YEAR OLD ANITRA
JOHNSON CANT GET COVERAGE SINCE
SHE ISN'T DISABLED AND DOESN'T
HAVE YOUNG CHILDREN, THE TWO
MAIN CRITERIA FOR QUALIFYING FOR
MEDICAID IN SOUTH CAROLINA.
AN AIR FORCE VETERAN WHO'S GONE
BACK TO COLLEGE, SHE'S CURRENTLY
UNEMPLOYED.
>> NOT BEING ABLE TO GO TO THE
DOCTOR AND TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THE
PREVENTATIVE CARE THEY HAVE FOR
A WOMAN MY AGE IS PRETTY BAD.
BUT JUST HOURS BEFORE JOHNSON
RALLIED AT THE CAPITOL,
ACTIVISTS FROM THE TEA PARTY
WERE ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE
BUILDING RALLYING AGAINST
MEDICAID EXPANSION.
RALLY ORGANIZER JESSE GRANSTON
SAYS ITS VERY SIMPLE.
E
DOLLAR THAT IS ATTACHED TO THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT OR TO THE
MEDICAID ROLLS, WERE GIVING UP
OUR SOVEREIGNTY, WERE GIVING UP
OUR ABILITY TO TAKE CARE OF
OURSELVES.
>> Reporter: THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT WOULD HAVE PAID THE
STATES COSTS FOR MEDICAID
EXPANSION FOR THE FIRST THREE
YEARS AND PAID 90% AFTER THAT.
TWENTY SIX STATES SO FAR HAVE
SIGNED ON.
SO FAR, SOUTH CAROLINA, LED BY A
REPUBLICAN GOVERNOR AND
LEGISLATURE, HAS STOOD FIRM IN
OPPOSITION.
STILL, GRANSTON WORRIES THAT
LAWMAKERS MAY ULTIMATELY FIND
THAT KIND OF MONEY DIFFICULT TO
REFUSE.
>> WE UNDERSTAND IT'S GOING TO
BE A TREMENDOUS BATTLE TO WIN
BECAUSE WHEN YOU HAVE A STATE
LEGISLATURE THAT HAS BEEN
SUCKING AT THE FEDERAL TEAT FOR
THEIR ENTIRE LIFE.
IT'S THE EQUIVALENT OF TAKING
AWAY CRACK COCAINE FROM SOMEONE
WHO HAS BEEN SMOKING IT THEIR
ENTIRE LIFE.
>> Reporter: WHILE THE POLITICAL
DEBATE CONTINUES THE CURRENT
MEDICAID PROGRAM HAS SEEN
TREMENDOUS GROWTH OVER THE LAST
FEW YEARS, EVEN WITHOUT
EXPANDING THE DEFINITION OF WHO
QUALIFIES.
>> OUR BIGGEST SUCCESS HAS BEEN
WITH CHILDREN.
>> Reporter: TONY KECK IS THE
STATES DIRECTOR OF HEALTH AND
HUMAN SERVICES.
>> WE'VE INVESTED IN EVERYBODY
WHO'S CURRENTLY ELIGIBLE BUT UN-
ENROLLED INTO THE SYSTEM.
>> Reporter: THANKS TO AN
AGGRESSIVE OUTREACH PROGR, HIAMS
DEPARTMENT HAS ENROLLED 100,000
CHILDREN WHO WERE PREVIOUSLY
ELIGIBLE FOR MEDICAID, BUT
DIDN'T TAKE ADVANTAGE OF IT.
THAT INCREASE HAS EARNED THE
STATE A BONUS OF 17 MILLION
DOLLARS FROM THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT.
KECK IS HAPPY TO TAKE THAT
MONEY, BUT HE DOESN'T WANT THE
STATE TO EXPAND MEDICAID ANYMORE
SINCE HE THINKS THE SYSTEM IS
FLAWED.
>> MY FEAR IS IN THE STATES
WHERE THERE'S MEDICAID
EXPANSION, THAT HOSPITALS AND
DOCTORS AND OTHER HEALTHCARE
PROVIDERS TAKE THE PATH OF LEAST
RESISTANCE.
WHICH IS INSTEAD OF GOING AND
FINDING THE PEOPLE WHO NEED THE
MOST HELP, THEY TAKE THE HEALTHY
FOLKS WHO JUST COME ON INTO
THEIR DOOR.
EASY DOLLARS, EASY TO TREAT.
AND IT'S NOT REALLY SOLVING THE
BIG PROBLEMS THAT A STATE LIKE
SOUTH CAROLINA NEEDS TO FOCUS
ON.
>> Reporter: KECK HAS LAUNCHED A
PILOT PROGRAM THAT HE THINKS
COULD DO THAT.
ITS CALLED THE HEALTHY OUTCOMES
PLAN, AND IS REALLY A SERIES OF
40 DIFFERENT EXPERIMENTS.
EACH ONE DEVELOPED BY HOSPITALS
IN THE STATE TO REACH OUT TO
UNINSURED PEOPLE WHO ARE CHRONIC
USERS OF THEIR EMERGENCY ROOMS.
THE AIM IS TO CONNECT THEM WITH
PRIMARY CARE PHYSICIANS AND
SOCIAL SERVICES, INCLUNGDI
MENTAL HEALTH COUNSELING AND
EVEN ACCESS TO FOOD BANKS,LL A
TO KEEP PEOPLE HEALTHIER.
DR. JAMEE STEEN IS A FAMILY
PRACTICE PHYSICIAN WITH THE
PROGRAM DEVISED BY PALMETTO
HOSPITAL IN COLUMBIA.
>> PALMETTO CARES LOOKS AT MORE
THAN GETTING THEM A PHYSICIAN.
WHAT CAN WE GET FROM SOCIAL
WORK?
WHAT CAN WE GET FROM PHARMACY?
OFTEN TIMES WE DO A TREMENDOUS
AMOUNT AROUND TRANSPORTATION.
IT SOUNDS CRAZY.
I'M NOT A BUS DRIVER, BUT THAT'S
WHAT PATIENTS NEED IN ORDER TO
GET TO THE VISITS.
SO IF I DON'T HAVE PROVIDER NEAR
TO WHERE THEY ARE, HOW AM I
GOING TO GET THEM CONSISTENTLY
TO THEIR VISITS?
>> HI.
IM HERE TO SEE NURSE CHRISTY.
>> Reporter: THE PRIMARY CARE
VISITS ARE FREE OF CHARGE, THE
HOSPITALS ARE PAID FROM A POT OF
MONEY TOTALING NEARLY A HALF
BILLION DOLLARS.
MOSTLY FEDERAL MONEY ALLOCATED
FOR INDIGENT HEALTH CARE.
>> HOW ARE YOU?
>> Reporter: RIGHT NOW THE
PROGRAM IS SMALL.
THE AIM WATO RS EACH 8,500
PATIENTS IN THIS FIRST YEAR.
BUT THREE MONTHS INTO IT, ONLY
ABOUT 1,500 HAVE ENROLLED.
>> WHEN WAS THE LAST TIME YOU
SAW A PRIMARY CARE DOCTOR?
>> Reporter: BRIDGET EDWARDS, A
NURSE AND CARE COORDINATOR SAYS
ITS OFTEN DIFFICULT TO TRACK
THESE PATIENTS DOWN AND CONVINCE
THEM TO ENGAGE IN A SYSTEM THAT
PREVIOUSLY ALL BUT EXCLUDED
THEM.
>> THE PROBLEM WITH A LOT OF
THEM IS THEY DON'T THINK THEY
HAVE THAT PERSON TO CONNECT
WITH.
THEY DON'T HAVE ANYONE THAT'S
THERE TO GUIDE THEM AND LEAD
THEM AND HELP THEM MANAGE THEIR
CARE.
SO ITS A MATTER OF BUILDING
THEIR TRUST, REACHING OUT TO
THEM.
>> Reporter: THAT WAS EXACTLY
THE CASE OF FORTY-SIX YEAR OLD
TAMMY MOODY, WHO SUFFERS FROM
HYPERTENSION AND DEPRESSION.
THREE MONTHS AGO SHE BEGAN
PARTICIPATING IN THE PILOT
PROGRAM AND SHE SAYS HER HEALTH
HAS ALREADY IMPROVED.
>> I'M ENCOURAGED TO GET UP,
TAKE MY MEDS.
TO BE HONEST, THEY'VE GIVEN ME
THE WILL TO LIVE.
THE ABILITY TO GET UP AND MOVE
AND HELP YOURSELF.
BECAUSE THEY'VE GIVEN ME THE
TOOLS TO DO THIS.
>> Reporter: ALTHOUGH MOODY IS A
BIG FAN, SHE STILL WISHES HER
STATE HAD EXPANDED MEDICAID
SINCE THIS ISN'T THE SAME AS
INSURANCE AND THERE'S NO
GUARANTEE HOW LONG IT WILL LAST.
DR. STEEN AGREES BUT SHE'S
HOPEFUL THE PILOT PROGRAM WILL
CONVINCE POLICY-MAKERS OF THE
NEED FOR PREVENTIVE CARE.
>> IF LOOKING AT HEALTHY
OUTCOMES IS A WAY TO GLEAN DATA,
AND SAY WOW.
PEOPLE CHANGED.
THEY HAD USED THE E.R. 25 TIMES.
NOW THEY'VE USED THE E.R. ONCE
IN THE LAST SIX MONTHS BECAUSE
THEY'RE HOOKED INTO THE SYSTEM.
IF THAT ALLOWS THE DISCUSSION OF
HOW CAN WE EXPAND SERVICES?
I'M RIGHT THERE.
WHICH IS WHY I'M RIGHT HERE.
>> Reporter: SECRETARY KECK, OF
COURSE, BELIEVES THE PROGRAM
WILL DELIVER RESULTS MORE
CHEAPLY AND EFFECTIVELY THAN
MEDICAID EVER COULD.
>> WE THINK WITH VERY LITTLE
MONEY, RELATIVELY SPEAKING TO A
SEVEN-BILLION DOLLAR MEDICAID
BUDGET, THAT WE CAN ACTUALLY GET
THAT TYPE OF ACCESS TO THOSE
200,000 PEOPLE, SO WE CAN
IDENTIFY YOU'RE SOMEBODY WHO
MIGHT HAVE A PROBLEM IN THE
FUTURE, LETS GET YOU CONNECTED
TO A HEALTH SYSTEM NOW.
>> Reporter: WHILE HEALTHCARE
ADVOCATES WAIT TO SEE WHAT KIND
OF RESULTS THE PROGRAM WILL
BRING, POLITICAL ACTIVISTS IN
SOUTH CAROLINA WILL CONTINUE TO
ARGUE THAT ITS A MATTER OF
MONEY: EITHER MORE, OR LESS,
FEDERAL SPENDING ON PEOPLE
WITHOUT HEALTH INSURANCE.
>> Ifill: NOW, HOW JOURNALISM ON
THE WEB, AND CREATED
SPECIFICALLY FOR THE WEB, IS
DISRUPTING TRADITIONAL MODELS
AND CREATING NEW ONES.
JUDY WOODRUFF HAS OUR
CONVERSATION.
>> Woodruff: THESE DAYS ONLINE
VENTURES ARE ATTRACTING BIG
NAMES FROM WHAT WAS TH
TRADITIONAL WORLD OF NEWS MEDIA
AND THE LANDSCAPE IS SHIFTING
EVER MORE QUICKLY.
THE MOST RECENT MOVE:
EZRA KLEIN, FORMERLY OF THE
WASHINGTON POST AND HIS POPULAR
WONKBLOG SITE, IS DEVELOPING A
NEW WEBSITE FOR DEEP AND
EXPLANATORY-STYLE JOURNALISM.
THAT FOLLOWS NATE SILVER TAKING
HIS POPULAR "538" BLOG TO ESPN
FROM THE NEW YORK TIMES AND THE
FOUNDERS OF THE WALL STREET
JOURNAL'S "ALL THINGS DIGITAL"
BRAND CREATING THEIR OWN NEW
SITE, "RECODE", BACKED BY NBC
UNIVERSAL AND OTHERS.
TO NAME JUST A HANDFUL.
WE LOOK AT WHAT THIS MEANS FOR
JOURNALISM AND WHAT'S BEHIND IT.
JIM BANKOFF IS THE CHAIRMAN AND
C.E.O. OF VOX MEDIA, WHICH WILL
PUBLISH THE NEW EZRA KLEIN
"PROJECT X."
WALTER MOSSBERG, WHO CO-LAUNCHED
THE NEW VENTURE, "RE-CODE."
AND, TOM ROSENSTIEL, THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF THE
AMERICAN PRESS INSTITUTE.
WE
WELCOME YOU ALL TO THE
NEWSHOUR.
WALT MOSSBERG I'M GOING TO
START WITH YOU, WHY WOULD
SOMEONE WORKING IN
TRADITIONAL MEDIA AND I'M
SURE THERE ARE A LOT OF
REASONS BUT WHAT IS THE MAIN
REASON WE SHOULD KNOW THAT
YOU WOULD WANT TO TAKE THAT
AND GO TOO AN ON-LINE ONLY
HOME.
>> WELL, JUDY, JUST SPEAKING
FOR MYSELF AND MY CO-FOUNDER,
CARA SWISHER, FIRST OF ALL,
WE WROTE ABOUT TECHNOLOGY,
AND BECAUSE WE WROTE ABOUT
TECHNOLOGY WE ARE ALREADY
LARGELY READ ON-LINEMENT AND
SECONDLY IT WASN'T SORT
OF-- ANYTHING, IT WAS TRYING
TO HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY TO
BUILD AND EXPAND AND GROW
AND DEVELOP THE BRAND AND
THE KIND OF CONTENT THAT
WE'VE BEEN DOING ALREADY.
SO IT ISN'T REALLY PRINT
VERSUS ON-LINE SOME OF, IT'S
MORE INDEPENDENCE AND KIND
OF THE FREEDOM TO MOVE
NIMBLY AN GROW.
>> Woodruff: JIM BANKOFF IS
THAT HOW YOU SEE IT, THAT
IT'S NOT REALLY ABOUT
ON-LINE RSUSVE OTHER KINDS
OF MEDIA?
>> WELL, I DON'T KNOW IF I
WOULD SAY EXACTLY LIKE THAT.
I AGREE WITH WALT AND CARA,
THEY'RE BUILDING SOMETHING
GREAT.
AND I WOULD PICK UP ON THAT
AND SAY THERE ARE PEOPLE
LIKE EZRA OR JOSH, OUR
EDITOR, ON THE VERGE, A LOT
OF PEOE LIPLKE HIM WHO WANT
TO DO SOMETHING BOLD AND
AMBITIOUS AND CREATE A NEW
MEDIA BRAND THAT WAS
EXPRESSLY MADE FOR THE WEB.
AND I THINK SOME FOLKS LOSE
SIGHT THAT THIS IS A
DIFFERENT MEDIUM.
IT'S NOT PRINT, IT'S NOT
TELEVISION, OF COURSE.
IT HAS ITS OWN CRAFT, ITS
OWN OPPORTUNITY AND YOU SEE
A LOT OF TALENTED PEOPLE WHO
GET THAT AND WANT TO PURSUE
IT.
>> WHAT DO YOU MEAN THAT
IT'S NOT-- IT'S JUST
DIFFERENT BY VIRTUE OF THE
TECHNOLOGY.
>>ELL, W THERE ARE CERTAIN
THINGS THAT REMAIN CONSTANT,
OF COURSE SHALL GOOD
STORYTELLING, A STRONG VOICE,
FAX, IT WILL NEVER CHANGE,
OF COURSE.
BUT THE MEDIUM IS DIFFERENT.
THAT THERE ARE NEW TOOLS AT
YOUR DISPOSAL.
THEY CALL IT MULTIMEDIA FOR
A REASON.
WE THEN VIDEO IT.
WE THEN-- NEWS THINGS TOO,
THOUGH, LIKE LOCATION, LIKE
SOCIAL, IT DOES IT ACROSS
NEW DEVICES AND THE PEOPLE
WHO CONSUME THE NEW MEDIA DO
SO IN DIFFERENT WAYS.
AND THAT'S OBVIOUS.
AND SO THE WAY THAT IT'S
PRODUCED, THE WAY THAT IT'S
DISTRIBUTED, THE WAY THAT IT
IS CONSUMED WHILE KEEPING
SOME VIRTUES OF GOOD
STORYTELLING AND JOURNALISM
EMBRACES NEW OPPORTUNITY.
>> AS SOMEBODY WHO HAS
LOOKED AT MEDIA OLD AND NEW
FOR SOME TIME NOW, HOW DO
YOU SEE THE DIFFERENCE IN
THESE TWO WAYS OF CONNECTING
WITH AN AUDIENCE?
>> WELL, THE OLD WAY THAT
LOT OF PEOPLE LOOKED AT THE
EMERGING TECHNOLOGY IS TO
SAY WE DON'T CARE WHERE WE
DELIVER IT WE'RE PLATFORM
AGNOSTIC.
I THINK WHAT JIM'S TALKING
ABOUT IS BEING PLATFORM
ORTHODOX.
TRYING TO UNDERSTAND THE
POTENTIAL AND THE NEW WAYS
THAT ARE ENDEMIC TO THE NEW
TECHNOLOGY AND REALLY
EXPLOIT THEM.
BECAUSE THAT'S WHAT
CONSUMERS ARE DOING.
THEY'RE DISCOVERING THE WAYS
OF DOING THIS.
NOW ONE THING ABOUT THIS
THAT IS NOT EP TIRELY NEW IS
LEGACY MEDIA ALWAYS HAD
STARS.
THERE WERE SPORTS COLUMNISTS,
THERE WERE TENT POLE
PERSONALITIES AT
PUBLICATIONS.
AND I REMEMBER DAVID
HAMMERSTAM THE GREAT BOOK
WRITER WHO STARTED AT THE
"NEW YORK TIMES" AND WON A
PULITZER PRIZE FOR HIS
COVERAGE OF VIETNAM, HE SAID
AT A CERTAIN POINT OF
OUTGROW THOSE PUBLICATIONS
AND WANT TO DO DIFFERENT
THINGS THAT YOU CAN DO IN
NEWSPAPERS.
WHAT'S DIFFERENT NOW IS MANY
OF THESE FOLKS ARE DOING THE
SAME THING AS THEY WERE
DOING AT THEIR LEGACY
INSTITUTION BUT THEY WANT TO
HAVE FREEDOM TO DO IT
SLIGHTLY DIFFERENTLY.
BUT IT'S NOT GOING FROM
NEWSPAPERS TO BOOK WRITING.
IT'S THE SAME PRODUCT.
>> AND WALT MOSSBERG, YOU
TALKED ABOUT REACHING A
DIFFERENT AUDIENCE.
I MEAN WHO, WHAT ARE
YOU-- WHAT ARE YOU SPEAKING
ABOUT?
BECAUSE YOU AT THE "THE WALL
STREET JOURNAL," THAT IS A
PUBLICATION THAT REACHES A
LOT OF PEOPLE.
>> RIGHT.
>> WHO DO YOU REACH NOW?
>> WELL, WE WANT TO REACH A
WIDE AUDIENCE, BOTH PEOPLE
BECAUSE OUR SUBJECTS ARE
TECH AND MEDIA, PRIMARILY,
WE OBVIOUSLY WANT TO REACH
KIND OF THE PEOPLE IN THOSE
INDUSTRIES AND WHO ARE
INTERESTED IN THOSE
INDUSTRIESMENT BUT WE WANT
TO WATCH, WE WANT TO REACH
EVERYBODY THAT USES
TECHNOLOGY.
BUT THAT IS INTERESTED IN
THE TOPIC, THE JUNCTION OF
TECH AND MEDIA AND ONE OF
OUR FIRST HIRES WHEN WE
BECAME INDEPENDENT WHICH WAS
JUST 30 DAYS AGO, WAS A
REPORTER TO DO SCIENCE AND
BIOTECH AND KIND OF, YOU
KNOW, KIND OF, MUCH MORE
CUTTING EDGE THINGS THAN
JUST THE NEXT SMART PHONE OR
THE NEXT LAPTOP OR
SOMETHING.
SO IT IS A BROADER AUDIENCE
AND IT JUST DEPENDS ON YOUR
STRATEGY.
I WOULD ALSO AGREE WITH JIM
THAT THERE'S A LOT MORE YOU
CAN DO ON-LINE THAN IN
PRINTMENT BUT WHILE I WAS AT
THE JOURNAL, WE WERE ALREADY
RUNNING A FAIRLY-- FAIRLY
AUTONOMOUS YEN LINE SITE.
WE JUST NEEDED TO BE ABLE TO
BE NIMBLER AND MOVE FASTER
AND TAKE ADVANTAGE MORE
QUICKLY OF EVERYTHING THAT
THE WEB OFFERED.
>> JIM BANKOFF, HOW
PROFITABLE CAN THESE
VENTURES BE?
CAN THEY, CAN THEY BE A
BUSINESS MODEL THAT OTHERS
WILL WANT TO REPLICATE?
>> I CERTAINLY THINK SO.
YOU HAVE TO HAVE FAITH THAT
THERE'S A BIG OPPORTUNITY
HERE.
YOU HAVE TO HAVE FAITH THAT
JOURNALISM AND STORYTELLING
WILL CONTINUE TO MATTER AS
IT TRANSITIONS INTO A NEW
MEDIUM.
LOOKING AT IT HISTORICALLY
WE'VE SEEN A LOT OF
DISRUPTION.
MIGRATION FROM MAGAZINES TO
CABLE NETWORKS, AND
BROADCASTS, EVERY GENERATION
IT SEEMS HAS HAD ITS OWN
MEDIA PROPERTIES THAT HAVE
BEEN BUILT INTO LARGE
SUSTAINABLE AND HIGHLY
PROFITABLE BUSINESSES.
I SEE NO REASON WHY THAT
CAN'
>> HOW DO YOU SEE THAT TOM
ROSEN DOESFIELD, YOU HAVE
LISTED A LOT OF DIFFERENT
EFFORTS.
>> I THINK WE DON'T KNOW
WHAT THE POTENTIAL IS FOR
ALL OF THESE WHAT YOU MIGHT
CALL THE INDIVIDUAL AS BRAND,
THE INDIVIDUAL JOURNALIST AS
BRAND.
I THINK IT DEPENDS ON A
COUPLE OF THINGS.
WHAT'S THE NATURE OF THE
TOPIC, HOW BROAD IS IT OR IS
THERE A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS
MODEL FOR IT.
ALL THINGS THAT WALT AND-- BUILT
DERIVES A LOT OF REVENUE
FROM EVENTS.
AND THERE SU A PROVEN
BUSINESS MODEL THEY HAVE
SUSTAINED OVER 12 YEARS,
WITH EZRA IT'S ABOUT
ECONOMIC POLICY, MY GUESS IS
THE MODEL IS GOING TO BE
DIFFERENT.
AND THERE'S PROBABLY A LIMIT
ON HOW MANY OF THESE CAN BE
OUT THERE.
THERE'S SOME ELEMENT OF
CONVENIENCE FOR CONSUMERS TO
GO TO ONE PLACE AND STILL
SEE A LOT OF THINGS
COLLECTED.
I REMEMBER SORT OF IN THE
EARLY DAYS OF THE INTERNET
WHEN MATT DREDGE CAME TO THE
PRESS CLUB IN WASHINGTON AND
SAID THIS WAS THE TIME WHEN
PEOPLE WERE TALKING ABOUT
CITIZEN JOURNALISM, MAYBE
JOURNALUS WAS BECOME
OBSOLETE AND CITIZEN WAS DO
THE REPORTING.
HE SAID THERE IS NOT NEED
FOR A MILLION OF ME, THERE
IS ONLY ROOM FOR A FEW.
>> IN FACT WALT MOSSBERG
COULD YOU HAVE DONE THIS IF
YOU HADN'T ALREADY
ESTABLISHED A BIG IDENTITY?
2 WAS WHAT YOU WERE DOING
WITH ALL THINGS DIG-- DIGITAL.
>> EYE'S NOT SURE WE COULD
HAVE RAISED THE MONEY
WITHOUT THE IDENTITY.
BUT I DO WANT TO SAY, I HAVE
HAD BEEN LUCKY ENOUGH TO
HAVE A FOLLOWING AND TO BE
KNOWN, CARA SWISHER, MY
PARTNER HAD A FOLLOWING AND
WAS KNOWN.
WE HAD 15 OTHER JOURNALISTS
WHO WERE WORKING FOR US WHO
ALSO ALL HAD FOLLOWINGS IN
THEIR BEATS.
AND THEY ALL CAME WITH US.
SO WE WERE ABLE TO HIT THE
GROUND RUNNING AND IT IS A
GREAT QUESTION, JUDY,
WHETHER SOMEBODY COMPLETELY
UNKNOWN, EVEN SOMEBODY TWICE
AS TALENTED AS THOSE OF US
WHO ARE BETTER KNOWN, IF YOU
ARE NOT KNOWN AT ALL, COULD
YOU HAVE RAISED MONEY AND GO
DO THIS, THAT'AS  GREAT
QUESTION.
I DON'T KNOW THE ANSWER TO
THAT.
>> THE GREAT THING ABOUT
MEUM IDIS THAT THERE IS
EQUAL ACCESS TO THE PLATFORM.
OF COURSE, YOU KNOW, IT
SEEMS OBVIOUS NOW BUT GONE
ARE THE DAYS WHERE YOU
NEEDED A BROADCAST TOWER OR
A PRINTING PRESS TO EXPRESS
YOUR VIEWS OR TO CONDUCT IN
PUBLISH YOURSELF.
SO THAT'S WONDERFUL.
NOW THE TALENT WILL RISE.
AND I DO AGREE, NOT EVERYONE
IS GOING TO GIVE, SCALE IT
INTO A LARGE ENTERPRISE BUT
WHAT'S CLEAR IS ALL OF THIS
OPPORTUNITY, ALL OF THIS
CHOICE IS GREAT FOR
CONSUMERS OF THE NEWS.
THEY HAVE TO SIFT THROUGH IT
AND HOPEFULLY WE'LL PROVIDE
GREAT CONTEXT FOR THEM TO
HELP THEM MAKE SENSE OF
EVERYTHING THAT IS COMING AT
THEM.
BUT THERE HAS REALLY NEVER
BEEN A BETTER TIME, I
BELIEVE, TO BE A CONSUMER OF
NEWS AN INFORMATION WITH ALL
THE CHOICES THAT ARE OUT
THERE.
>> THANK YOU ALL.
JIM BANKOFF, WALT MOSSBERG,
TOM ROSENSTEELE.
>> Ifill: NEXT, A STUDENTS' EYE
VIEW OF A PROBLEM WE'VE BEEN
COVERING FOR A WHILE:
CONCUSSIONS SUFFERED ON THE
FOOTBALL FIELD AND THE DAMAGE
THEY DO.
HARI SREENIVASAN NARRATES THIS
REPORT.
>> A CORBING TO THE NATIONAL
ACADEMY OF SCIENCES THERE
ARE 11 RECORDED CONCUSSIONS
FOR EVERY 10,000 HIGH SCHOOL
GAMES AND PRACTICES.
TWICE THE RATE OF COLLEGE
PLAYERS.
BUT RESEARCHERS BELIEVE THE
NUMBER IS ACTUALLY MUCH
HIGHER BECAUSE MANY GO
UNREPORTED.
WE ASKED OUR NETWORK OF
INSTITUTE REPORTING LABS,
MIDDLE AND HIGH SCHOOL
JOURNALISM PROGRAMS AROUND
THE COUNTRY TO PROVIDE A
SNAPSHOT OF CONCUSSIONS IN
THEIR HOMETOWNS.
ALEX OF WINDSOR HIGH SCHOOL,
IN CALIFORNIA COULDN'T TELL
HE WAS BADLY HURT.
>> THE HIT ITSELF WASN'T
THAT BIG.
I HAVE SUFFERED WORSE HITS,
YOU KNOW, TWO DAYS EARLIER
IN PRACTICE AND I WAS
BASICALLY SLEEP WALKING
THROUGH THE REST OF THE
GAME.
>> COACHES ARE TRAINED TO
IDENTIFY WHEN A PLAYER IS
INJURED BUT IT CAN TAKE TIME
FOR SYMPTOMS TO APPEAR.
>> THEY DIDN'T TAKE ME OUT
UNTIL THE THIRD QUARTER WHEN
ONE OF MY COACHES NOTICED I
WAS ACTING, EVEN ON FILM I
COULD SEE THAT, YOU KNOW, I
DIDN'T REALLY KNOW WHAT I
WAS DOING.
>> OFTEN PLAYERS TRY TO HIDE
THEIR INJURIES TO GET BACK
IN THE GAME.
NOT REALIZING CONCUSSIONS
CAN LEAD TO MEMORY LOSS,
SLEEP PROBLEMS AND CHANGES
IN BEHAVIOR.
THIS PLAYER AT AUSTIN HIGH
SCHOOL WHO ASKED NOT TO BE
IDENTIFIED SAID HE SAW
FSHESLA OF LIGHT AND STARS.
AND EVEN BLACKED OUT.
HE KNEW WHAT THE SYMPTOMS
MEANT.
BUT HE WANTED TO KEEP
PLAYING DESPITE THESE AND
OTHER INJURIES.
>> I HAVE HAD ABOUT 15 TO 20
CONCUSSIONS.
>> THAT FIGURE IS BASED ON
PERSONAL EXPERIENCE RATHER
THAN MEDICAL EVIDENCE.
BUT EVEN IF THE TRUE NUMBER
IS LESS, THIS PLAYER SAYS
THERE'S NO QUESTION THE HARD
HITS HAVE AFFECTED HIS BRAIN.
>> I DO FEEL AS IF THE
CONCUSSIONS HAVE DIMINISHED
MY ABILITY TO
CONCENTRATE-- CONCENTRATE ON
SUBJECTS, ESPECIALLY, LIKE
MATH, ADDING NUMBERS, IT
SEEMS A LOT HARRDE OR
FIGURING OUT A PUZZLE IS
JUST A LOT MORE TEDIOUS THAN
IT SHOULD BE.
>> THE TAX ATTITUDE STEMS
PARTLY FROM A CULTURE WHERE
ONFIELD PERFORMANCE IS
PARAMOUNT.
AND KIDS JUST WANT TO PLAY.
>> 16-YEAR-OLD KID,
INVINCIBLE.
YOU WANT TO GET BACK ON THE
FIELD AS QUICKLY AS YOU
COMPANY.
AND A CONCUSSION, YOU CAN'T
GET-- YOU GET A HEADACHE BUT
YOU REALLY DON'T FEEL IT.
IT IS NOT LIKE A SPRAINED
ANKLE.
>> CHUCK COOK, A GRADUATE OF
BLACK RIVER FALLS HIGH
SCHOOL EXPLAINED HOW HE AND
HIS FRIENDS BEAT THE IMPACT
TEST, A SET OF ASSOCIATIONS
AND MEMORY QUESTIONS USED TO
DIAGNOSE CONCUSSIONS.
>> I DID NOT TAKE THE IMPACT
TEST SERIOUSLY.
MY FRESHMAN SOPH MON MORE
YEAR I TESTED LOW ON
PURPOSE.
I DIDN'T WANT TO HAVE TO SIT
OUT A GAME BECAUSE I HAD A
CONCUSSION.
>> MEANING WHEN CHUCK WAS
TESTED AFTER A HARD HIT TO
SEE IF HE HAD A CONCUSSION,
HIS LOW SCORE WOULD NOT SET
OFF ALARM BELLS THAT HE WAS
HURT.
AND HE COULD GO BACK IN THE
GAME.
>> nd WHILE NEW REGULATIONS
REQUIRE COACHES TO TAKE HEAD
INJURY AWARENESS CLASSES,
PLAYERS REVEALED THERE IS
STILL A LOT OF PRESSURE TO
GET BACK IN UNIFORM.
JESSE FROM FORT MILLS, SOUTH
CAROLINA.
>> A COUPLE DAYS AFTER I GOT
MY CONCUSSION I DEFINITELY
FELT PRESSURED TO GET BACK
ON TO THE FIELD AND I WASN'T
COMFORTABLE AT ALL.
BECAUSE IT WAS ONLY A COUPLE
DAYS AFTERWARDS AN COACHES
WERE ASKING ME HOW MUCH
LONGER.
>> BUT FOR RICHARD
CUNNINGHAM IN AUSTIN, THE
HEALTH EFFECTS WERE TOO
MUCH.
HE DECIDED TO SWITCH SPORTS.
>> I MISSED FOOTBALL MORE
THAN PROBABLY ANYONE OUT
THERE.
BUT IT WAS JUST WHAT WAS IN
MY HEALTH'S BEST INTERESTS.
I HAVE BEEN BLESSED THAT
CONCUSSIONS PUT THINGS IN
MIND FOR ME AND I WAS ABLE
TO FOCUS MORE ON MY BASEBALL
AND ACADEMICS.
AND AS MUCH AS I DO MISS
FOOTBALL, IT'S BEEN A
BLESSING IN DISGUISE HAVING
TO PUT IT OUT.
>> IN MONTANA IT WAS ONLY
AFTER ONE PLAYER DIED FROM
REPEATED HEAD INJURIES THAT
ATTITUDES TRULY BEGAN
CHANGING.
DYLAN'S WENT INTO A COMA
AFTER A HARD HIT DURING A
SCRIMMAGE IN 2010.
HE WAS FLOWN TO THE HOSPITAL
AND DIED THE NEXT DAY.
HIS PARENTS CHANNELED THEIR
GRIEF TO PHE
DYLAN'S PROTECTION OF YOUTH
ATHLETES ACT.
A STATE LAW THAT REQUIRES
EACH SCHOOL DISTRICT TO TEST
FOR CONCUSSIONS AND SET
GUIDELINES FOR WHEN AN
ATHLETE CAN START PLAYING
AGAIN.
>> WE WILL NEVER RECOVER.
WE WILL NEVER RECOVER.
BUT WE CAN DO, IF YOU CAN DO
STION POSITIVE IN YOUR LIFE
TO HELP SOMEBODY ELSE THAT'S
VERY HEALING.
>> Ifill: YOU CAN WATCH ALL OF
THE STUDENT-PRODUCED STORIES ON
OUR SPECIAL FEATURE PAGE, "TOUGH
CALLS: HOW CONCUSSION AWARENESS
HAS AFFECTED YOUTH FOOTBALL
AROUND THE COUNTRY."
>> Ifill: NOW TO ANOTHER, VERY
PERSONAL TAKE ON A SUBJECT MANY
STUDENTS AND THEIR PARENTS ARE
WRESTLING WITH.
THE DOCUMENTARY "AMERICAN
PROMISE", AIRING TONIGHT ON THE
PBS SERIES "P.O.V.," IS THE WORK
OF TWO AFRICAN AMERICAN
FILMMAKERS WHO RECORDED THE
EXPERIENCES OF THEIR SON AND HIS
BEST FRIEND FOR 13 YEARS.
THE BOYS WERE AMONG THE FEW
STUDENTS OF COLOR ADMITTED TO A
PRESTIGIOUS PRIVATE SCHOOL IN
MANHATTAN.
FOLLOWING ALONG AS THE BOYS AND
THEIR FAMILIES CONFRONT
QUESTIONS OF RACE, CLASS AND
OPPORTUNITY, THE FILM CHRONICLES
THEIR DIVERGENT PATHS.
IN THIS EXCERPT, THE BOYS ARE IN
SIXTH GRADE AS PARENTS AIR THEIR
CONCERNS.
>> LET ME TELL YOU THAT MADE
IT TO THIS SCHOOL, AS AN
EXCELLENT MATH STUDENT.
AND I AM WATCHING THIS GOING
DOWN.
AND I'M QUESTIONING WHAT IS
HAPPENING.
AND A LOT OF KIDS ARE DOING
WHAT-- THE MUSIC, THEY ARE
PLAYING A TUNE AND THEY SAY
I DON'T LIKE IT ONE OF THE
KIDS SAY HE DON'T LIKE IT
BECAUSE ALL YOU LIKE IT
HIP-HOP.
>> THE TEACHER SAID THAT.
>> ONE OF THE KIDS SAID
THAT.
ANOTHER STUDENT.
SO I SAID SO WHAT DID YOU
SAY.
HE SAID WELL I GOT ANGRY.
I TRIED TO COMPOSE MYSELF
BECAUSE  IKNOW YOU SAID TO
COMPOSE.
>> THAT'S HILARIOUS.
>> SHE WAS A CHILD WAS
TELLING HIM, THIS IS.
>> HE HAS TO DEAL THE SAME
WAY BECAUSE I'M TRYING TO --
>> FROM A BLACK MALE I KNOW
THE STRUGGLE TO FACE THE
REALITY OF THE WAY PEOPLE
LOOK AT THEM AND FEAR THEM
WHEN THEY SEE THEM.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
>> AND SO BECAUSE EVERY DAY
ARE YOU GOING, YOU ARE
INUNDATED WITH THIS
MARKETING THAT A DARK BLACK
FACE IS DANGEROUS.
>> UH-HUH.
>> SO WATCH OUT.
>> OUR CHILDREN INS THIS
ENVIRONMENT F THEY ARE
SEEING IT NOW, WHAT
PERCEPTION ARE THEY GOING TO
HAVE OF THEMSELVES.
THIS IS GOING TO BE
SOMETHING THAT IS GOING TO
N THE FUTURE OR
SOMETHING THAT'S GOING TO
HINDER THEM.
>> Ifill: THE FULL P.O.V.
DOCUMENTARY, "AMERICAN PROMISE"
AIRS TONIGHT ON MOST P.B.S.
STATIONS.
>> Ifill: FINALLY TONIGHT,
REMEMBERING THE WORK OF THE
ACTOR PHILIP SEYMOUR HOFFMAN.
JEFF IS BACK WITH THAT.
>> Brown: HOFFMAN, WHO DIED THIS
WEEKEND, WAS A PROLIFIC ACTOR ON
STAGE AND ON SCREEN.
HE APPEARED IN MORE THAN 50
FILMS, OFTEN IN A MEMORABLE
SUPPORTING ROLE, BUT JUST AS
NOTABLY AS A LEADING MAN.
IN 2006, HE WON THE OSCAR FOR
BEST ACTOR FOR HIS PORTRAYAL OF
WRITER TRUMAN CAPOTE.
HERE'S A SHORT CLIP FROM THAT
MOVIE IN WHICH CAPOTE IS ASKED
ABOUT HIS FEELINGS FOR ONE OF
THE MURDERERS HE'S WRITING
ABOUT.
CATHERINE KEENER PLAYS HIS
FRIEND, HARPER LEE.
>> FALL IN LOVE WITH HER.
>> IT'S AS IF WE GREW
NEWSPAPER THE SAME HOUSE.
ONE DAY HE TOO UP AND WENT
OUT THE BACK DOOR.
AND I WENT OUT THE FRONT.
>> ARE YOU KIDDING ME.
>> NO.
>> ANN HORNADAY REVIEWS
FILMS FOR "THE WASHINGTON
POST" AND JOINS ME NOW.
YOU STARTED YOUR REMEMBRANCE
TODAY WRITING PHILIP SEYMOUR
HOFFMAN WASN'T A MOVIE STAR
IN THE CONVENTIONAL SENSE OF
THE TERM.
WHAT WAS HE?
>> WELL, HE WAS A CLASSIC
CHARACTER ACTOR, YOU KNOW.
I MEAN THESE ARE THE ACTORS,
YEOMAN WORKING MAN GUYS WHO
CAN DISAPPEAR INTO ROLES AND
BECOME THE PEOPLE THEY ARE
PLAYING, SLIP INTO THEM
EFFORTLESSLY AND ALSO BY THE
WAY, MAKE THE STARS AROUND
THEM LOOK ALL THE MORE
CREDIBLE FOR THEIR OWN
HONESTY AND TRUTH SEEKING.
>> I WAS THINKING FOR A LOT
OF US SHALL AND I'M ONE.
WE STARTED WATCHING THIS GUY
IN FILMS, SOMETHING STRIKING
ABOUT HIM.
OH, HE'S INDIFFER, WONDERING
WHO IS THIS GUY.
AND THEN WE DIDN'T FOE AFTER
SO MANY FILMS.
>> IT'S SO TRUE.
AND NO MATTER WHAT HE DID,
WHETHER IT WAS A COMIC ROLE,
DRAMATIC ROLE, LEADING ROLE
OR SUPPORTING ROLE, HE WAS
COMPLETE.
I MEAN IT WAS THAT QUALITY
OF SCREEN ACTING WHICH IS
FUSING BEING SEEMING.
AND BEING-- .
>> Brown: .
>> EXPLAIN THAT.
>> WELL, YOU ARE PLAYING A
ROLE.
YOU ARE-- YOU'RE RECITING
WORDS THAT HAVE BEEN WRITTEN
BY A SCREENWRITER WHAT.
YOU ARE HITTING YOUR MARKS
THAT THE DIRECTOR HAS WORKED
OUT BUT YOU MIGHT BE ON YOUR
16th TAKE.
BUT YOU ARE MAKING IT SEEM
UTTERLY BRAND-NEW,
SPONTANEOUS.
AN MOST OF ALL HONEST.
AND I THINK THAT'S WHAT
PEOPLE, YOU KNOW, AUDIENCE
MEMBERS WHO GREW TO LOVE HIM
OVER THE YEARS, I THINK
REALIZE HE NEVER LIED.
HE ALWAYS TOLD THE TRUTH TO
WHATEVER CHARACTER HE WAS
PLAYING.
IT JUST EMANATED.
>> THAT IS WHAT TIES THESE
MANY DIFFERENT CHARACTERS,
YOU THINK THAT'S WHAT TIES
THEM ALL TOGETHER.
>> I THINK THAT'S WHAT MADE
HIM SO GREAT.
AND YES, I DO THINK THAT
THAT WAS JUST A CONSISTENT
THREW LINE REGARDLESS OF THE
MATERIAL HE WAS IN, THE
GENRE, THE SCOPE.
MAYBE EVEN THE QUALITY.
HE ALWAYS ELEVATED IT
BECAUSE HE WAS HONEST.
AND HE WAS 100% COMMITTED
AND RIGHT THERE.
HE WAS ALSO RELATABLE.
I MEAN LET'S FACE IT, HE
LOOKED LIKE MOST OF THE REST
OF US.
AND I JUST THINK THERE WAS
SOMETHING SO ENDEAR
APPROXIMATING ABOUT THAT.
AND SO REASSURING ABOUT
THAT.
>> AND AS HE DID GET SOME
STARRING LEAD ROLES, HE
CONTINUED COMING OUT IN
THESE SMALL FILMS IN SMALLER
ROLES AS WELL.
>> YES, HE DID.
AND EVEN JUST THE LAST FEW
YEARS WAS SORT OF A GREAT
CASE IN POINT.
I MEAN HE WAS DOING MOVIES
WITH BRAD PITT AND GEORGE
CLOONEY AND THAT WAS A GREAT
EXAMPLE, I THINK, OF HERE
ARE TWO BONA FIND
LARGER-THAN-LIFE MOVIE
STARS.
>> IN THE WAY YOU THINK OF
IT.
>> BUT IN ONE CASE BRAD PITT
IS PLAGUE A BASEBALL MANAGER
AND IN OTHER GEORGE CLOONEY
IS PLAYING A POLITICIAN,
HOFFMAN'S PERFORMANCES SORT
OF GROUNDED THEM.
AND ALLOWED THEM, ALLOWED US
TO BELIEVE THEM AS THOSE
SORT OF MORE BLUE COLLAR,
NOT GLAMOROUS GUYS.
>> ONE THING HE WROTE ABOUT
IS HOW THIS INEVITABLY PLAYS
INTO THE IDEA OF THE
TORTURED ARTIST, RIGHT, THE
DARK PLACE THAT SOMEONE LIKE
THIS, SUCH A GENIUS ON THE
STAGE AND SCREEN, REACHES TO.
IT'S A ROMANTIC IDEA THAT
YOU DON'T TOTALLY BUY, I
THINK.
>> NO, I UNDERSTAND WHERE IT
COMES FROMMENT BECAUSE I
THINK WHEN WE LOSE SOMEBODY
AND IT HAPPENED WITH HEATH
LEDGER.
IT SEEMS TO HAPPEN WITH
DISSPIRITING REGULARITY,
THESE PEOPLE WITH SUCH
PROMISE AND SUCH GIFTS.
AND YOU THINK WHETHER WOULD
THEY EMBARK ON A
SELF-DESTRUCTIVE PATH.
AND SO THAT WHEN YOU START
INTRODUCING TERMS LIKE
DEMONS AND FIGHTING WITH
DEMONS AND THE TORTURED
ARTIST.
AND I THINK THAT IS WAY FOR
US TO EXPRESS WITH
COMPASSION AND RESPECT THEIR
GIFT WITHOUT BEING PUNITIVE.
BUT I ALSO THINK IT
MYSTIFIES THE DEEPER TRUTH
WHICH IS THAT THESE ARE
OFTEN THIS IS A DISEASE.
ADDICTION, DEPENDENCE IS A
DISEASE WHETHER IT IS A
CHEMICAL DEPENDENCE OR
PSYCHOLOGICAL ONE.
>> WE JUST HAVE BEEN 20
SECONDS.
DO YOU HAVE A FAVORITE
HOFFMAN EITHER FILM OR SCENE
THAT YOU WANT TO RECOMMEND
TO PEOPLE.
>> YOU KNOW, I WILL BE
CLICHE AND SAY THAT ALONG
WITH MOST OF THE REST OF THE
COUNTRY, I WAS FIRST
INTRODUCED TO HIM IN BOOGIE
NIGHTS.
HI SEEN HIM, I THINK I HAVE
SEEN HIM IN LITTLER ROLES
AND LITTLIER FILLS BUT THAT
WAS REALLY THE FIRST TIME I
WAS AWARE OF HIM AS SUCH A
GALVANIZING FORCE.
AND THAT SCENE WITH MARK
WAHLBERG WHERE HE IS SHOWING
OFF THE CAR THAT HE BOUGHT
TO MATCH MARK WALBERGABOUT'S
CHARACTER HE IS THIS LOVE
SICK GUY WITH A CRUSH ON
ANOTHER GUY.
HE IS JUST TORTURED.
AND SYMPATHETIC AND
VULNERABLE AND SWEET AND THE
WHOLE, THE WHOLE BEAUTIFUL
MESS.
>> ALL RIGHT.
ANN HORNADAY OF "THE
WASHINGTON POST" ON THE LIFE
AND WORK OF PHILIP SEYMOUR
HOFFMAN, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
WALL STREET'S WEEK GOT OFF TO A
ROUGH START AS THE DOW
INDUSTRIALS FELL MORE THAN 320
POINTS.
JANET YELLEN WAS SWORN IN AS THE
NEW CHAIR OF THE FEDERAL
RESERVE.
SHE'S THE FIRST WOMAN TO HOLD
THAT POST.
MAJOR TECH FIRMS RELEASED NEW
DETAILS ON HOW OFTEN THEY'VE
TURNED OVER USER DATA TO THE
GOVERNMENT.
THEY SAID ONLY SMALL NUMBERS OF
CUSTOMERS WERE TARGETED.
AND JOAN MONDALE, WIFE OF FORMER
VICE PRESIDENT WALTER MONDALE,
DIED AT A HOSPICE CENTER IN
MINNEAPOLIS.
SHE WAS 83 YEARS OLD.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE RIGHT NOW
HAVING HEALTHY FOOD CHOICES IN
YOUR NEIGHBORHOOD GROCERY STORE
IS ONE WAY A COMMUNITY CAN
COMBAT THE OBESITY EPIDEMIC.
BUT IT TAKES MORE THAN THAT.
A NEW HEALTH AFFAIRS STUDY LOOKS
AT WHAT HAPPENS WHEN A
SUPERMARKET OPENS IN A FOOD
DESERT, OR AN AREA WHERE FRESH
AND NUTRITIOUS OPTIONS ARE
LIMITED.
READ THAT REPORT ON OUR HEALTH
PAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT.
ON TUESDAY, WE'LL TAKE A LOOK AT
A HARSH NEW LAW AIMED AT GAYS
AND LESBIANS IN RUSSIA.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT